Welcome to the Mega Man 4 Tournament! Please join us on Speedgaming for a fun time at the Wily Casino.

Official Rules Follow

Dates
  Registration Ends <TBD>
  Get PB’s in by <TBD> prior to Seeding
  Seeding to be completed by <TBD>
  Group Phase <TBD if we even do groups>

General
  Everyone is welcome to join the tournament.  There is no “Minimum PB Requirement”, and players of all skill levels are encouraged to participate

  All tournament entrants must join the tournament discord.  This is for ease of scheduling races and making announcements.  

  If you are not in the discord by the start of the tournament, you will be removed from the tournament.

  The tournament will use Challonge for group and bracket management

  Matches should be completed at a pace of at least one a week.  You may complete more than 1 match a week if you desire (this is actually encouraged).

    If you cannot complete a Winner's bracket stage match a week, you will be removed from the tournament. If you have a busy weekend, please schedule your race either before the break, or immediately on Monday.
    
    For the Loser's Bracket, in order to keep pace with the winner's bracket, please plan to complete 2 matches a week.

    If you anticipate a problem meeting these scheduling requirements, you must let a tournament admin know as soon as possible.  If you think you will be very busy in <TBD - June, July, August?>, it may be best to not enter the tournament.

    Please remember the speedrunning community includes players from around the world. When scheduling races, your opponent may be from a timezone with a significant offset from your own. It is recommended that runners specify timezones, as well as AM/PM (or use 24 hour time), when scheduling races to avoid confusion (Eastern Daylight Time, Central European Summer Time, Japan Standard Time, etc)

  Entrants are to conduct themselves with integrity, show respect for their fellow competitors, and in general be good sports about things. No discriminatory or malicious conduct will be tolerated from tournament entrants.

    Entrants that feel uncomfortable with a situation are encouraged to contact the tournament admins to help resolve the situation.

  Tournament Admins are the final arbiters of these rules

  Several entrants have pointed to https://www.deepl.com/translator as a translation tool for the rules. This has been used to translate the rules into Spanish and Japanese. A best effort will be made to ensure translated rules are accurate and up to date. Most importantly, if anyone would like an additional translation of the rules, just ask the tournament admins.

Versions and Timing

  This tournament will use the timing rules found on the Mega Man Leaderboards for Mega Man 4, here http://megamanleaderboards.net/index.php?game=4&category=260 . Please remember you must survive the Wily Capsule fight for a run to be valid.

    Timing begins on pressing Start on the Title Screen. You should select "GAME START" immediately after Racebot says “GO!”

    For the purposes of the tournament, timing ends upon end end of the fanfare after defeating the Wily Capsule (JRTA). YOU MUST SURVIVE THE FIGHT TO SEE THE ENDING - DOUBLE KOS ARE NOT A SUCCESSFUL SPEEDRUN. You may declare yourself ".done" immediately upon defeating Wily, as is normal in Any% speedrun rules (though .undone if you take a death). The intent here is to minimize debate about double KOs. Please keep in mind the tournament moderators will evaluate close races, so it is not necesary to rush to .done when avoiding the final attack from the Capsule.

  Acceptable versions of the game include the NES/Famicon releases, the Wii Vitual Console, and the Wii U Virtual Console. Rules for emulators and allowed emulators is on the Mega Man Leaderboards.
  
  The Aniversary Collection (Game Cube, Original XBox, PS2) version is not allowed due to lag and fast weapon swapping concerns. The Legacy Collection version (Steam, XBox1, PS4, Switch) is not allowed due to Turbo concerns.

   If you have any questions about your game version or emulator rules, consult an admin immediately. Anything not explicitely allowed by these rules is not allowed.
  
  The category being raced is Any%. In the unlikely event major skips are discovered during the tournament, this category may be updated.

  No save/load state features are allowed, including the Wii U Virtual Console's features.

    You must start the race from game start. You may only use a Password you have seen during the race

  No autofire/turbo features and/or controllers are allowed

  Anyone found to be cheating will be summarily removed from the tournament

Race and Tournament Format

  All races will use Speedrunslive. If for some reason you cannot race on speedrunslive, or speedrunslive is unavailable for a race, inform a tournament admin as soon as possible

    PLEASE ensure you are able to log in to Speedrunslive IRC as soon as possible, preferably immediately after joining the tournament and not the first week of races, so admins do not need to scramble the day of your race to get you set up
Tournament admins will be the final arbiter of race results. Close results will be reviewed and may differ from SRL placing.

  All races must be streamed. If you cannot stream your gameplay, you may not enter the tournament.

  The video of your stream must be saved and accessible on your channel.

  Please locally record your race streams. This will be referenced if your feed dies during the race from something such as a short internet outage, and it becomes necessary to verify race results.

  No race shall count as a tournament race unless it has been scheduled properly in Speedgaming’s race scheduler and acknowledged by tournament admins and both entrants.  If for some reason the scheduler is unavailable, ensure a Tournament Admin knows about the race and announces it in the #races channel

  For non-tie breaking races, races will only count as a race between pairs of entrants. A race cannot count as a single entrant’s match against two or more opponents at the same time.

    That said, a single SRL race may have 2 pairs of entrants to restream 2 matches at once.

Match Rules <TBD>

  Matches between entrants will a single race (be best of 1), until the round of 4 in each bracket

    Close matches will be evaluated by administration to determine a winner.  In a result of a tie, the race will need to be re-raced. This means in "best of 3" situations, it is the first to 2 wins, and ties are essentially not used to determine a match winner.
    
    As another reminder, remember you must survive the Wily capsule fight to complete your race. Do not feel rushed to declare yourelf finished, type .done, etc, at the risk of taking a death. Tournament admins will review close results and see when one player needed to push enter to .done and actually finished before their opponent (perhaps because of livesplitting .done, autosplitters, JRTA splits, etc)

    When each bracket is down to 4 participants, to include both loser's bracket rounds of 4, the match will be best of 3 instead of a single race. Not all 3 races need to happen back-to-back on the same day, HOWEVER you and your opponent are responsible for finishing your matches by the appointed time.

  If you are having difficulty contacting your opponent, please contact a tournament admin AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.

  This tournament will be a double elimination bracket. There is no swiss or group stage.

   Etrants will be seeded into the bracket according to their PB on the Mega Man 4 Any% leaderboards, http://megamanleaderboards.net/index.php?game=4&category=260

    If the bracket is not an even power of 2 entrants (2, 4, 8, 16, 32, etc), byes will be given to the players with the better seeds.


Restreams

  We will try to restream as many races as possible, but not all races can be restreamed. Please schedule your races as far in advance as possible to give the admin team a chance to schedule time on SpeedGaming channels, AND to find a commentary team. Be aware that not all races can be restreamed, and waiting to find a time when a race can be restreamed is not an excuse to be late scheduling races.

  Races that are restreamed will be streamed on the Speedgaming family of networks. Please observe speedgaming race restream conduct, and ensure no alerts appear on screen, and minimal layout elements intrude on the game feed.  Definitely ensure nothing considered vulgar, lewd, or pornographic appears on stream, as Speedgaming is family friendly. 

  If you want your audio feed to be used, keep in mind you must have game sound only streamed (no other music), and you must not use a microphone during the race. Remember to mute or disable your follower, subscriber, bits, and any other alerts
Several streamers use a small mostly transparent “watermark” image in the corner of their game feeds to prevent nefarious internet users from claiming the streamer’s game play as their own. As long as it is discreet, this is allowed (though see the above about family friendly)

  While the goal is for the entirety of each entrants run to be shown on a given restream, runs that go over an hour without a winner will likely be abandoned by the restream for scheduling constraints.

  Anyone interested in commentating a race should make their interest known to Tournament Admins in discord.

  You do not need to be a tournament entrant to commentate

  Commentators will be held to a code of conduct, and are expected to be polite to stream viewers and runners. Speaking to a run going poorly is okay, but insulting a runner’s skill is not.

  If time allows, there will often be the opportunity to have an interview following a race

  Nobody is required to interview if they are not comfortable doing so

  It is recommended that interviews not be held between consecutive races in the same broadcast window, so the following races can begin sooner.

  Interviews, like commentary, will be done in Discord.
